Tap8revision (#105)
theupdateframework/taps: tap8.md

# Abstract

> TAP 8 allows roles to rotate trust from their current keys to a new key or keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TAP 8 allows a role to change or revoke their key without requiring changes from
parties that delegate to that role.  This involves a role rotating trust from their 
current key(s) to a new key or keys.
```

> channel), following the chain of key rotations leads to verified keys

Reviewer: You should clarify before this that root rotation does not change for this TAP.

for the current root metadata.  This means that even if the keys are not
changed, a client must download every version of the root metadata in
order to follow the chain of delegations.  The root metadata contains
additional information, like the spec-version that needs to be seen for

> each version of the file.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this is relevant.

> TAP 8 provides a methodology for key rotations for other roles as well.

Reviewer: What do you mean?  You say this doesn't work for root rotation.  Why is it "other roles as well"?

# Rationale

TUF is a framework for securing software update systems that is designed
to maintain trust in the system through key compromises. The trust
is rooted in a quorum of root keys, which delegate trust to other roles.
When the root keys delegate trust to a role t for all names, this can be
used to delegate some names to role d, etc.  When the person who owns
role d wants to renew their key, they have until now had to ask the holder of

> role t to delegate to the new keyset d'. If one of role d's keys is

Reviewer: given d's looks possessive and you are trying to use d' as d prime, perhaps different notation is needed.

## Timestamp and snapshot rotation

Timestamp and snapshot key rotation.  These keys can rotate as
well, leading to ROLE.rotate.ID.PREV files, where ID and PREV are as described above.
The value of T is the ASCII encoded old threshold value.  Each file is
signed by a quorum of old keys, and contains the new keys.  A client
can fetch the actual data, timestamp, and verify it.  During verification, 
the client needs to fetch the ROLE.rotate.ID.PREV file
where ID is as described above using the timestamp keyid, either from
the root file or locally cached and PREV is as described using the previous 
timestamp rotate file or null.  If the timestamp key is renewed by
the root, all timestamp.rotate files can be safely removed from the
repository.

## Interoperability with TAP 3 (multi-role delegations)

Multi-role delegations are handled using the same methodology.

Let's consider the project foo, initially delegated to a multi-role
threshold (of 2) to keyids Alice, Bob, and Charlie.  When they want
to add a keyid from Dan to the project, they create a foo.rotate.ID.PREV
file, where ID is as described above (the SHA256 of the concatenated

> key ids of Alice, Bob, Charlie, and the character 0x32) This

Reviewer 2: after `0x32)` a dot (`.`) is missing

themselves without an individual with elevated privileges, but based
on a threshold of signatures.

> Clients need to take care to check for null rotations (rotate

Reviewer: is "rotation to null key" less confusing?  Why use "null rotations"?
